SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dr. Hendrik Schöttle

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Note on License Compatibility:

While the MIT License is generally regarded as permissive and compatible
with all versions of the GNU General Public License (GPL), the wording of
the license may, in some interpretations, suggest a stricter reading.

To avoid any ambiguity: although this software is licensed under the MIT
License, it is the licensor’s intention and understanding that it may be
combined with, and distributed as part of, a larger work licensed under the
GPL (in any version) or any other copyleft license. Accordingly, the
distribution of such a combined or derivative work under the terms of the GPL
or any other copyleft license is considered permissible under this licensing
approach.

This clarification is provided to reflect the intended permissive nature of
the MIT License in this context.
